References 
1) http://mc4j.org/confluence/display/MC4J/Tomcat
2) http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/management/security-windows.html

Steps

1) edit catalina.bat section where JAVA_OPTS is set.  append -Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.port=9004

2) create a jmxremote.password file by copying the file jmxremote.password.template this file will be 
in your JRE's \lib\management directory. 
NOTE: you can use the property -Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.password.file to point to a different location.

3) add the following two lines that define the passwords for the monitorRole and the ControlRole
monitorRole  apassword
controlRole  apassword

4) change the properties of the jmxremote.password so it can only be read by the person starting the JVM
for unix use chmod 600 jmxremote.password
on windows this only works on NTFS nor FAT file systems
a) Right-click on the jmxremote.password file and select the Properties option.
b) Select the Security tab
c) Select the Advanced button in the Security tab
d) Select the Owner tab to check if the file owner matches the user under which the VM is running.
if not then set the user running the VM as the owner
e) Select the Permission tab to set the permissions: 
If there are permission entries inherited from a parent directory that allow users or groups other 
than the owner access to the file, then clear the "Inherit from parent the permission entries that 
apply to child objects" checkbox
f) At this point it will prompt you to ask if the inherited permissions should be copied from the 
parent or removed. Press the Copy button.
g) Then remove all permission entries that grant access to users or groups other than the file 
owner by clicking the user or group and press the Remove button for all users and groups except 
the file owner. Now there should be a single permission entry which grants Full Control to the owner.
h) Press OK to apply the file security change. The password file is now secure and can only be 
accessed by the owner


